All right, today is December the 1st, and I'm
interviewing Dr. Barbara Stone, associate
professor of interdisciplinary education, who
was appointed to Texas A&M, or came to Texas A&M in
1977, and has worked in the IDED department. And
we're going to talk a little bit about some of the
changes that you have perceived, Dr. Stone, since
you arrived at A&M. things that have occurred that
you feel had great impact on the College of
Education and how you have seen the changes and
what has happened since you have been here? Could
you just think back to the major things that have
changed since you've arrived? Well, of course,
the change in the dean was dramatic change.
changing in some of the departments, the decline
of IVTE, or industrial ed,
the switching of ed tech from industrial ed to
IDED. There are a number of things of that nature.
Can you give me a little background? What brought
about these changes? You know, an idea? Yep. Do you
want to talk about it? Sure. Why not? OK.
I can't remember exactly how long ago it was, but it
might have been 81 or 82. Cargan
suggested that he did more than suggest. He caused
a planning committee to be formed to a
representative from Ag Ed, Industrial Ed, voc ed
and adult ed, the gang of four, to look into the
possibility of combining IDED and IED into one
department. At
the onset of that, it was my understanding that the
dean said that neither of the existing chairmen
would be the chair of the new department. At that
point, also, voc ed was a part of IDED. That may or
may not have come out in some other interview. As a
matter of fact, IDED was started initially
because there was federal money for voc ed
fellows, doctoral fellows. I think there were 16
of them. And they needed somewhere to put them. and
their whatever it was, so they made IDED, which is
not a department. It is an administrative bucket.
At that point, Adult Ed was in Ed-Ed, and I do not
know how Adult Ed got from Ed-Ed to IDED, but it
happened before 77 before I came. I didn't even
know that. In any case, We struggled, the gang of
four struggled for some year with numerous
meetings and going back and reporting to our
constituencies and so forth. And each time the
adult ed faculty declined to join industrial ed or
to join a total group because we felt that adult ed
was far more than just industrial training for
adults. And we got away with not going along. There
have been some consequences, in my personal
opinion, that went along with our refusal to play.
But the upshot of that, I think, although I'm
oversimplifying it, I'm sure, is that the Voc Ed
program has been virtually destroyed.
And that's too bad, because it was a viable program
and it serves a need. I think now they're making an
effort to bring it back again now that the
leadership of IDT has changed. But there are a
number of things of that nature that we've
experienced. I don't know if this makes any sense
out of context. Well, it's a first. No, that's
fine. In other words, the fact that they could not
be joined with IDED or voc ed, is that what really
had the most impact on it, sort of dissimulating?
On voc ed? No. Well, you would need to verify this
with a voc ed perception if you didn't care to. But
from my, I honestly believe it was an in-house
fight that some of the faculty in industrial ed
felt that they knew all about voc ed. And the voc ed
people are joint split appointments. And so there
was a power fight, and they lost. Now, that's
oversimplified and what have you, but it's what I
think happened. The political influence. And you
asked what I thought. That's what it is. OK, here we
go. So that kind of covers what you feel has caused
the major changes. What about just within IDED? Is
there something, some other changes that have
occurred since you arrived in 77 in the last two
years? Oh, yeah, when I first came, IDED, because
it's a non-department, anybody can teach a course
in IDED. And the credits for the teacher go back to
the teacher's department so that we don't own
IDED. Oh, I see. It's an administrative device,
but McNamara can teach something and did for a
while. Don Clark can teach something and IDED
doesn't get those credits in terms of budget and
what have you. They go back to Clark's own
department or Grace Chisholm or what have you. But
originally when I came there were I guess as many as
15 faculty members who considered themselves
IDED faculty members. Ag Ed people, Voc Ed people
were in there. industrial ed people and stuff. And
so when we had a meeting of IDED to talk about
curriculum or admissions requirements or
something, the whole world was telling adult ed
what we had to do. And we had endless meetings that
had to be sat through to be believed.
That got peeled away. And I have now, well, voc ed's
was taken and put into, or they agreed to go into
industrial ed. We kind of knocked away the ag ed a
little bit, but still a couple of the ag ed, one of
the ag ed faculty members will chair an adult ed
committee from time to time, Jim Christiansen.
And we consider him really an adult ed person. Has
Don Seaman been the IDED director, I mean, chair
the whole time since it's been in existence? No.
Don Clark was its initial den mother. Okay. When he
was associate dean of the College of Education for
research. Oh, he held both? He was both. And, in
fact, it was Don Clark who hired me in May of 77, or
April or whatever it was. By the time I got here in
August, I went to Don Clark and I said, hi. And he
said, I'm not your boss. And I said, wonderful, who
is? And so he sent me to some chap who was then
coordinator of the vocab program, who had become
chair, not chair, coordinator of IDE. I can't even
remember his name. He left. And I went and I said,
hello. And he said, I'm not your boss. Oh. So then I
ended up with Don Seaman, you know, saying, look,
somebody's going to call us coordinator. Because
it's not a department. So that, he kind of evolved
into that position. Well, he got a, well, no,
there's a story that goes with that, too. When this
Vulcan person left, whatever his name was, There
was still voc-ed faculty and adult-ed faculty,
plus these appendage faculty members. And we got
called into a meeting in the little conference
room on the seventh floor with Dean Hubert. And
Dean Hubert spent a half an hour telling us why he
had selected Don Seaman as the coordinator of that
meeting.
See, I hadn't gotten all of that story yet. And,
well, I had only interviewed one in this
department, so I needed all that background to tie
it all together. Because that department is hard.
And everybody, in fact, Dean Corrigan said that to
me the other day, you know, by talking to Huber,
about how did this all happen? How did you get this
department, you know, started? Or, you know, how
did it come about? And he said it was because of the
need for that right, a grant, and didn't know it.
And also, well... I'll tell you some more pieces
not on tape. Okay. All right. Now, do you feel that
the college is achieving its mission of teaching,
research, and service, the mission of the land
grant colleges? And I guess to what extent, I mean,
do you feel? Because there's been some changes
with emphasis, you know, some departments
emphasizing one more than the other or feeling
that they're doing more. research or teaching or
service or whatever. Well, it's my understanding
that Caravan feels, and furthermore, it's my
understanding that the administration of the
university feel that faculty members can
negotiate to emphasize the right to emphasize any
one of the three in any given year. They've made
that, I think, very clear in the Tenure and
Promotion Advisory Committee of the college.
How do you balance yourself?
Me? I heavily emphasize teaching. Second is
research. Second is service. And third is
research.
In your department, is that the norm, pretty much?
Or does it vary within the department of people
also? It varies with individuals. But because we
teach off campus, and we have such a heavy load of
graduate students, None of us are very heavily
into research, because we choose to work with the
students first. And time and energy goes. And
there are five of us and 100 doctoral students. And
it's wonderful. We have the best student group in
the world, without any question. But there isn't.
Well, I suppose there would be time if one wanted to
spend all one's time doing that. When you teach, I
taught in Corpus this semester, and that's six
weekends gone. And then you come back and you do all
week two, and I'm not complaining. No. But I'm just
saying that I choose to work with students rather
than to do research at this point. But you do not get
pressure, and you also don't get penalized if you
don't. I don't think we get promoted like other
people. I don't think we will get promoted like
other people when it reaches the university
level. I don't care what they say. You mean anybody
that is not working heavy on research?
Sheila, could you get that and get a number,
please? That's just my . Let me say another thing
about that. I think more than research, I believe
that getting funded projects gets you promoted.
And that takes more time yet, and also takes time
away from the students. I don't honestly see how
one can do all of those things and do them all well.
And I know they say you can choose, but I don't
believe that they mean it when it comes to
promotion time. Has that always been the case, or
is it changing gradually as far as emphasis? I
don't know. OK. Under Dean Hubert and Dean
Corrigan, have you perceived a difference in the
emphasis? Much more emphasis now on getting
funded projects for which you get no release time,
for which you get no space to put your project
people. Linda has umpteen projects working out of
what used to be our conference room, which got
taken away from us without anybody even saying
anything to us. You've got all that story. Right.
So that it's a difficult kind of thing, and I
understand that they are working under pressure
from other people as well. the dean. It's the
higher? Sure. OK. Now, of course, you work mostly
with graduate students. Isn't that correct, in
the department? Yes. I occasionally work with one
undergraduate course in volunteer
administration. Because the tremendous growth
at Texas A&M would not probably affect your work
with students as much as it would the
undergraduate faculty, or has it? Because 100
students for five faculty For doctoral students,
as you almost have seen, and on the one hand, we get
told to reduce the number, and on the other hand, we
get told to be sure the count's up. How are you going
to do that?
No, I think the College of Education probably has
been impacted least by the growth of the
university. Because we've always had more
graduate, or for a number of years, we've had more
graduates than undergraduates anyway. Or about
50-50. Because there's Ed Ed and there's us, and we
only deal with graduate students. And also Ed
Psych? Ed Psych has some undergraduate, not a
major, but some undergraduate courses. Some
undergraduate courses. There's service
courses, special ed and some other things. Right.
Okay. What about collaboration among the
departments within the college and then even with
the college and other colleges outside? Have you
perceived any changes in that?
Really, I think the collaboration is good. When
Paulette and I became editors of one of our
national journals, I had to learn a number of
things about computer applets and that sort of
thing. I didn't know beans about it. And I
ricocheted around that campus for about six
months getting all the information and the
training I needed. And everybody was uniformly
marvelous and helpful and excited about the
project. I mean, the people in the computing
service center. The guy who's head of the
philosophy department regularly uplinks
computer material to Oxford University and to
MIT. And he said, this is how we do it. Everybody was
just marvelous. So on that basis, nobody gave me
the slightest hint they didn't have time or they
weren't interested. And that's almost across the
university when I've had that kind of need. But you
had a unique opportunity to do it, whereas maybe
other faculty members do not have that same
opportunity. Well, I don't know. I'm also not very
sophisticated as an individual. And when I need to
know something, I run around and say, do you know
about this and can you help me? And it may be they
were, you know, taken aback by a foolish lady doing
all that. I don't know. But they were very helpful.
When most of the contacts I've had have been in the
Senate and the Graduate Council and in doctoral
committees and working with graduate council
reps. Have you been on the Senate? You said on the
back of the Senate? Yes. And I'm now on the Graduate
Council. What is the Graduate Council? It is a
subgroup of the Senate which attends to issues
relating to graduate study, including clearing
courses to be forwarded to the system. Is that new?
No. Was that in existence before the Senate? Oh,
yes. But it was then, when they reorganized the
administration, it was subsumed as a subgroup of
the Senate. Prior to the Senate,
I guess it was the third year of the Senate, the
Senate finally won the point that the graduate
dean would not automatically be the chair of the
graduate council. And poor Leo. We made Leo so mad.
Leo Berman. Is he not there anymore? No, he
retired. He's a marvelous person. Now, is there
another? Is there a head of the graduate? What they
did, they had a Rowan Scope study. And Corrigan was
on the committee, and a bunch of others. And Sam
Black, who was the Speaker of the Senate, and some
other people I kind of remember. And they
basically looked at what the graduate college was
doing and came up with a suggestion that it would be
done away with. What they recommended was to put
the function, most of the functions, of the
graduate college in each dean's office and let
each college look after itself. And that was, I
think, to have, as I understand it, to have been the
procedure. However, Each dean then asked for an
associate dean with support staff to take on those
responsibilities. And so instead of a graduate
college, we have an office of graduate studies,
which is presently under Dwayne Anderson, who is
the associate provost for research and graduate
study. So it didn't work with the deans
individually then, doing it? No. Well, where was
the money going to come from? Well, and then you'd
have had seven. But
in any case, Dwayne Anderson is a member ex
officio, I think with vote, maybe ex officio
without vote, on the Graduate Council. Why would I
be able to get all of this to triangulate and get all
of the facts and figures and the times and how the
policy changes? Would the faculty senate have
minutes or get information that will What do you
think of that?
I'm not sure that I need it. But that would be
differently involved in your study. So it
shouldn't be. I think Sam Black, who is acting dean
of the medical college, Sam was speaker of the
Senate when this began to happen. And he's a very
friendly, articulate person. I think Linda said
there are some either minutes or agendas of the
faculty. Oh, yes, there are legal minutes. And
will those be in the archives? I don't know. Okay.
Talk to Patty
Steele. I want to say Steele. I think that's right.
Patty Steele, there is an office for the faculty
senate in Goodwin, on the second floor of Goodwin.
And Patty is a very nice person. OK, great. OK, now
your department itself, IDED, how do you see that
department collaborating within the college
with any other departments? Not just like, OK, you
have this project on the Lifelong Learning
Journal, but what are some other opportunities
that faculty members in your department have to
interact or to work? or collaborate? I know on
graduate committees you all sit on the level. We
have all at one time or another participated in the
inquiry groups. The inquiry groups seem to be
somewhat dormant at the moment, as far as I can
tell, mostly. But we've all worked hard at one time
or another, not in the past year or so.
And we also,
well, Again, I need to know about meta-analysis.
And Dick Wilson in EdSight teaches a course in
that. So I went to him and I said, oh, other thing.
And he gave me a quick and dirty session, which was
far from sufficient. So I'm going to sit in on his
course this fall, this spring. We do things like
that a lot, because we are running to keep up and
learning with our students. That's true. OK. Now,
what about perceptions of others or outsiders
towards the College of Education? Do you pick up
too much of that, not only on a state level, but on a
national level? And you're involved in a lot of
national type. I'm involved, oddly, on the
national level, like as a consultant to the
National Forage Council. How do you feel the
College of Education at A&M is perceived as you
travel around and participate in so many other
things? What do you feel? Nothing negative.
Nobody says, oh, you're from education. People
just sort of listen to what you say. And if it fits,
they go on from there. And if it doesn't, they say,
hmm. I've not felt any negative kind of things.
What about the reputation? Does the reputation
extend beyond the state very much of the college
because of the fact that it has, you know, it
produces the most teachers in the state? Or, you
know, is that known? Are those facts known much? I
don't know. I don't know. So, but it's sort of... We
are, as a program in our national association,
Because right now, we have probably more students
making presentations at the national meetings
than anybody else. We had eight, 10 or 12 people
making presentations in Washington. IDED
people? Adult ed people. I was a proud den mother. I
was running around, busting my buttons. Eight
presentations? I think it was more like 12 to 15.
They're just superior people. They really are.
That's wonderful. One guy came up who graduated in
78, all spit and polish, with a full bird colonel,
with a chest full of ribbons. He's now in the
Surgeon General's office, head of training for
medical personnel for the Army. So these were not
people that are still at A&M. They're people that
have gone out and now are doing? Well, no. That 12 to
15 was current students, or people who just
graduated. But if we just can get the Coast Guard
and the Marines, we'll have the training of all the
military services tied up. That's incredible.
That's great. Irrelevant to your study. No, but
everything is relevant in different ways. Now,
the future and visions and what you think is going
to happen to this college in the 21st century with
all of the monumental changes and upheavals that
are in the... Do you have any feel for what's... I
know what I wish could happen. What is that? That we
could somehow get ourselves together as a
non-political group, which is not likely, and
look at what the children need and redesign it so
that the people would be ready to help the children
learn it or help the adult learners learn it. I
think we're, of course I would think this, but I
think we're doing a more adequate job of
preparation than we are with adults than we are
with children. And that's an and all the people
working with adults are doing a better job than
getting. What do you attribute that to?
Locked in ways of thinking.
On the other side? On the other side of it. Is it the
pedagogy versus... That's too simple, really.
Yeah, but that's... But it's, you know, if the
focus is on the content and the focus on the
learning plan and the focus on the textbook and the
focus on third grade material, whatever in the
world that is, instead of the focus on the learner
and where the learner is and where the learner
needs to go, that's the basic difference that I
see. And in adult ed, What you're saying is that you
tend to focus on the learner. We have to, because
there are so many different places. And
therefore, it's totally right. Does that make
sense? Well, it makes sense to me. And it really is
the way we used to do it, historically, in colonial
era. A kid came to your school, or a teacher came
through the mountains of West Virginia, and he
stayed with the family, and he taught everybody as
far as he could from where they were. And then he
moved on to the next valley and did the same thing.
So the focus was on the children and the learning
and not on the holy content.
It's just a matter of emphasis somehow to me. It's
oversimplified, but it's a thing that really
worries me. Now, the changes, of course, that are
impending are not going to have as much effect,
again, on your programs or your department.
Because it's not going to change adult. Not unless
the state gets into certification of ABE
teachers. If the state gets into that
certification, then our whole game will have to
change it. Certification of adult? Adult basic ed
teachers. Is that a possibility? I've been
hearing noises about that for 11 years.
How do you feel about it?
I don't know. It wouldn't hurt to have some way of
assuring that people who teach basic education to
adults are going to treat them like adults.
There's one famous story of a teacher here in San
Antonio who taught children during the day and
taught English to Mexican-American men at night,
or Mexican men at night. And it came Thanksgiving,
and she had her daytime kids coloring turkeys, so
she asked them in to color turkeys, and nobody came
back the next week. That's a true story. It's a sad
story. So that I don't think it's really bad to have
somebody, some way of assuring that the people are
going to just change from looking at the content
entirely to looking at the learner in relation to
the content. On the other hand, I think the
literacy volunteer programs are vital and alive
and growing and doing it out of love and compassion
and concern and getting law-abiding training and
getting whatever the other one is, LCA, I think,
Literacy Council of Maryland training. And I'd
hate to kill that and bureaucratize that. So I
speak with a fork in time.
Okay. Now, how about some highlights? You've been
there now 10 years at Texas A&M. And I know that you
have made certain contributions that you must
feel good about. You just mentioned the student,
the quality of the students, and how you're seeing
them perform. And the kinds of things that they're
doing has to be one of your satisfactions. But are
there any things that stand out, an insight, an
anecdote, an observation that you might want to
share? That's hard. I know. I'm sure there's lots.
Or a highlight, maybe, of these last 10 years,
other than the general student, working with the
students. It sounds trite, but every student is a
highlight. Some of them I'm joyfully getting rid
of. Some of them, I really hate to see them go. I
wrote. My students who are trying to graduate in
May, a long letter to give them all the deadlines
and stuff, and ended up with something like, I'm
going to put my foot in your backside and joyfully
push you out of the nest onto an unsuspecting
world.